Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Hey, Christian.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: did you? book for this thing? Or, yeah. Okay. Good.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah. No, no, because there's only 24 place, and I don't know how many people. Yeah, yeah, okay, I think it's like from the Mac. And I don't know, does it work?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Thank you. Richard.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: computer is shot. Okay.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So what you all need to do is when you come. Please
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: open this one in the browser. Now let you do open the zoom session, and then you can see what I see.  nickel.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: What's I mean
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: that you need?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Let's say that would
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: do this now, does it work for anyone?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Oh, good. So that's what you need to do now.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus:  After workshop, you can check out the slides. You don't have to do that now
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I'm gonna show them on the zoom screen and then at the end.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay.
and
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: this
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: good.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: You missed the lecture this morning. So now you're coming out. That's nice.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So it's gonna finish 1 min.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Understand?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So everybody who arrives please with the first. Yeah. URL, so you can see what I have on my screen. Zoom. Does that work for you guys
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and textbooks?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: No, no, you don't need to. Don't go to zoom. Let's say, URL, just open the browser
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: openroll
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Supervisor.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, open in browser.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Any browser?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Thanks. And then it should work.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Is this? Writing big enough? Christiana screamed on the in the emacs. Tickets here? Oh, you can see my thing that would explain it.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, hold on. Let me just share my screen.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, so big enough. Yeah, cool.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Good.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Alright.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Everybody opening the browser. This put your phones away. Whatever
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: of renewable energy can I come across a study with findings I want to include in my.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: okay, that's good.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So Hello, everyone. Perfect weather for a talk on the solar eclipse, because it's sunny, right? So my name is Marcus Berton. Also don't know computer data science professor here.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: don't try to pronounce the last name.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Nobody does.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: No, no, don't worry. If you're on Zoom. I don't think I've said it so that you are automatically muted. On the lower left is a mute button. Just click it and mute it. Okay.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so, what are we doing?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: yeah, this is the only link you need, really, for now later on, if you want to look at this, I don't pick a screen outside of my PC. Or look at the slides, or the code, or anything like that, you could go to this one. And later in the session. Hopefully, we have time to write it into code ourselves and then gonna show you how to do that so very much. Just really like, I don't know 15 lines of code or something like that.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So this came out of Donald Taylor asking you, could I do something for the Mac?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And, by the way, those who are keen on this.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Don't scan it from a distance. Just come here afterwards. I've been. I've been instructed to cover it until I can release you. So at the end, just come by and scan you don't scan your code.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yes. So that clips.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Actually, this started much earlier, because when I was a young lad, Europe from Germany. Originally I really wanted to do astrophysics
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and physics, but that didn't really work out so I became a particle physicist
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: which is sort of the opposite rather than the big distances, the tiny distances. But turns out those 2 worlds, the very large world in very small world, actually, very, very linked.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: It's almost the same thing, really, certainly in terms of computing and looking at the data, right? So I wanted to do it. Data science for everyone, workshop for Donald Taylor. And I propose, I think, 6 different ones. And you pick this nested on the wall, maybe because it's the solar clip on April the eighth, I think. Yeah.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: there was Discovery Day a few weeks ago, and I thought, it's nice way to test this, because I had never talked about the selective before just testing in front of group of high school students. So I gave this talk already changed slightly, for today added some interactive elements which we're going to to do later on. And it worked quite well, they seemed interested. So I thought, you know. Go ahead and do it. If you're late
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: open a browser and put this in. then you can see what I see.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Alright. So I sat down really like 3 weeks ago. And if you, if you have a new question, somebody throws a question as you? I don't know. But do you not know something about how to build a phone? Anybody that knows how to build a smartphone?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, that's kind of sounds like cool, right? People do it. So you should be able to do it. So the first thing you do, if you want to research something like that that is as big as actually a smartphone which is complicated. Or, let's say, the electric car or solar eclipse visualizations. You start just writing down all the questions you possibly have. And so I wrote down 10 questions.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: the last one sort of more like a marketing question for the first 9 actually really interested me. And I had really no answer to these questions. And once I've written it down and work out the lecture, I thought, Yeah, this is good enough. I'm gonna present this. So the assumption is, if it interests me.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Now, that's a pretty weak assumption. Because first, I should maybe find out what interests you? Quick question. You're. I'm trying to find out your relationship with data. I'm not going to ask the people I already know the other ones. I don't. What is your major or your primary interest?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Let's say it line, and maybe a knife anywhere.
Thanks.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Carson, nurse.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: They got the notion of any data.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, is that actually, that's a very good answer. Because
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: who is involved in nursing? I assume everybody knows what nurses who's involved in nursing.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Oh, sorry! What people are involved in nursing, not here in the world who is involved in nursing? Who nurses
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: right.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Walton. that mothers nursing related to monitoring.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay? So it's yes or no. What kind of care data?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, they take a lot of data like they take your block. They measure all kinds of stuff, all that disappear somewhere. Somebody looks at it before they switch you, and then afterwards to say that they go into a bin or not. Very likely not. Okay, because they had a computer. Anything that's ever in the computer is going to fall back on your feet at some point. Just remember that soon.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: But if you do know that problem.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so huge area link to everything else? Because people
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and people are among the most interesting source of data. Why? Because.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: you can't rely on. You have to measure them all the time. I say, today, I'm I don't know I'm I'm I'm 6 feet 7. Would you believe it? Okay, tomorrow, II say, have another claim. So you need to measure all the time to find out what's all that she people lie. People have beliefs about themselves. So the only way to get to that is to try to measure that goes for nursing. You say anthropology. That's another area anthropology
position.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, population. Because and anthropo is the man
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so anything about humans is measurable, right or other other completely different majors. What do you do?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Business, other data business example? What's the first thing comes to your mind about business data numbers, what numbers
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: money? Yeah. So how much do you? Profits? Yeah, or sales data? Those are interesting incidentally, because pretty much everything is set up as a business.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: That kind of interest is also relevant because most nursing charity money has to be spent. Somebody has to get the money from somewhere. So if you probably know, this is called the ubiquitousness of
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: data, which is a fancy word for it's everywhere. You know, data is absolutely. And that's that's really why I'm doing this job as well. So today, we're talking about a specific phone data which is so like keeps data. And I don't want to read this questions because I have them here. But it's basically some questions more about physics.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And like, how does it happen? How often does it happen? But more and more you get into data, relevant questions like, if you know, one eclipse happens. And you know, probably the people a long time ago. We're quite scared of of eclipses. There's one data that I found one historical data, which is that it's some battle, I think 500 something before price
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: in the middle of that solar eclipse happened.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And so total sort of eclipse. So it got pitch dark. Yeah, as it does actually within a minute or so. What do you think how they reacted on the background. Oh, I can see anything now go at it. What do they do?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: There's a quick finding.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, because that's the first thing you do when it suddenly gets dark in the room. You don't charge because you see no longer what to charge or who to charge.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so what they did is they stopped
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: battling, and then they obviously it was not very long with those solar eclipse, and a particular point do not last for more than a few minutes, but that was enough for them to take the solar eclipse as assigned from the gods that they were doing wrong here, and so they just parted ways to stop the battle.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: This kind of interesting response. Right? I'm I'm curious to see. Just imagine the the solar eclipse and base, but it goes. The path goes over base field. People are fighting. Couples are at each other's throat. Right?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Then it gets suddenly pitched up. And this software is like, Okay, let's just be peaceful from now on. Right? So what I'm saying is that down here on Earth so that Clips had an historic. So it's interesting. When will the next one be? Somebody could even say, You know, what if I could put an important political date on the day of the solar eclipse? What effect would that happen today
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: in people's minds? Would would people leave these 2 events? What do you think.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Ketu? Would they link the solar eclipse? And whatever happens. they would. Yeah, a little bit like, because it's a little bit like
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: as if some giant
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: takes the sun and swapples it right. And you cannot help but be impressed by it, and you will be impressed. Anybody has seen another solar eclipse before. Yeah, so it is kind of impressive when it actually happens right for that moment, because it's so unexpected.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Anyway, today, of course, we like to think that we are totally enlightened. So we have lots of method to do predictions. These predictions the word predict is relevant another important area that you all know which is machine learning.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: which is another aspect of artificial intelligence. So you're all involved in predictions all the time. Then I'm gonna look at the fact that there was one way recently turns out. They are very often gonna look at data visualization. That's really the main deal here. Then, we're gonna even do some visualization. So that's the plan for today at the beginning, because I don't know how much you know about solar eclipses.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Just gonna watch a short video. Okay, have you seen this video before National Geographic Video. Anybody has seen it before. No, if you haven't, then that's cool. Then we were just gonna watch it. I can't make it very loud, but you should have it on your zoom, and I'm gonna switch the the subtitles on. And that should then do it for us.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so it's very short. It's only 5 5 min or so, but gives you the basic idea about what is a solar eclipse. And then we can move on into data science from there. Okay, are there any questions, by the way, at the beginning?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: No. Anything
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: you can ask anytime. You can interrupt me and ask me anytime. As I said, this is not like standard lecture, and I don't like standard lectures, anyway, and I'm not a very good lecturer. So a a you, every question is fake happens when a new moon moves between the earth and the sun, blocking some or all of the sun's rays from reaching the earth
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: by cosmic chance, even though the sun is 400 times wider than the moon, it's also 400 times farther away. Therefore the 2 objects appear the same size in our sky.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Astronomers are able to predict eclipses, because the earth and moon have very predictable orbits. Why, then, isn't there an eclipse every month?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: The moon's orbit is usually tilted a few degrees north or south in relation to the earth. When the moon does eclipse the sun. It casts 2 types of shadows on earth.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: a smaller, darker shadow, known as the umbra.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and a larger shadow known as the Penumbra, and Batesville is in the umbra.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: There are 4 types of solar eclipses. The first and most spectacular is a total eclipse. When the moon completely covers the sun's surface.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Total eclipse can only be seen if you are standing within the umbrella shadow. That's why the imaginary line created by this shadow as it races across earth is known as the path of totality.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: People within the penumbral shadow see only a partial eclipse, the second type from this view. Outside the path of totality. The moon passes in front of the sun off centre, never fully covering its surface.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Third, an annular eclipse occurs when the moon passes directly in front of the sun, however, unlike a total eclipse, the moon appears too small to fully cover the sun.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: The moon's orbit is elliptical, so sometimes it's closer to earth, and sometimes it's farther away.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Last. A hybrid eclipse is when the moon's position between the earth and sun is so finely balanced that the curvature of the earth plays a role.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: The moon will be farther away from some parts of earth along the eclipses path resulting in an annular eclipse. In other parts the moon will be just close enough to fully cover the sun, resulting in a total eclipse.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: while a total solar eclipse happens somewhere on Earth every year or 2.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Any given point on Earth experiences the event only about once every 400 years.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: We interrupt this video for an important safety announcement, looking directly at the sun, even during an eclipse, can cause permanent eye damage.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I assume you know this
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: what
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: you would.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: You know this or not? I hope you know this. Okay, this is not a safety. I don't. I'm not so interested in safety. I mean, I'm interested in safety. But okay, you can look through a whole la di la di la! And at some point it gets then interesting again.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I mean, you should not look at it. But you know, did you see this picture before with the dog? The dog also had a
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: hit, a pair of glasses. Now, do you think dogs look at the sound?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: No, they don't. They're they actually smart. They were born smart, and so they do not need to extra extra glasses. Okay, don't give your docket glasses unless you're crazy. So okay, so and of course you can look through a keyboard. But everybody really wants to look at the sun. So I think they have lion branded eclipse glasses so you should get one of those and keep them for the rest of your life. It's kind of cool.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay. I think I posted one on the, on the on the app.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, this is more interesting. The moon completely covers the sun. Low, lying valleys on the moon's edge will be the only you gotta remember this. Okay, this picture. I'm gonna come back to it later, when I talk about history, because what you see here.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: It's
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: the beginning of one of the most exciting experiments of the twentieth century in physics that completely changed our view of the entire world in the universe. Ok, but you cannot understand it without this picture. So remember that for later
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: any spots that sunlight continues to pass through
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: these remaining brilliant shafts of light known as Bailey's beads will disappear one after another.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and finally a single bead of light remains known as the diamond ring, signalling that you are just seconds away from experiencing totality. Once the last speed disappears and the moon completely covers the sun's surface, the view through your eclipse glasses will be pitch black, so we can take a malady achieved
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: at this point. None of the sun's rays are reaching your eyes, and it's the only time that it's safe to take off your glasses. remember to put your eclipse glasses back on before any of the sun's rays start to peek through again.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Any sunlight reaching your eyes even for a few seconds, can cause serious damage while an eclipse can last a few hours. Totality typically occurs for less than 3 min.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Animals and plants have also been known to alter their behavior during a total eclipse.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Song. Birds may stop singing, crickets may start chirping, and flowers may even start to close up.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: we won't always be able to see total solar eclipses. The moon moves about one and a half inches away from Earth each year. It's estimated that in about a billion years the moon will be too far away from Earth to completely cover the sun.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So that's a complete bummer. If you live that long. No more solar eclipses for you.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: But okay, I think you'd probably be able to live with that. Okay, so little study tip. If you see a film like that, you probably use a lot of videos to study right?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: The first thing you need to do after you see, video like that is, summarize it in your head. Right? So study to just thought of that myself. How many of the terms? Review
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: new video in your head and and write down. Write down summary.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Write a summary. If you cannot write down a summary. You didn't understand nothing.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: If you or it was a really crap video. That's possible, too. But some videos just spend a lot of time. But they don't explain anything. So if you were a summary, you write 3 words, and you cannot go any further. But more likely you didn't pay attention, because it's hard to learn from videos about as hard as it learns to learn from a from a per person. You see, it's a little easier when you see him, because, you know, can also smell me and and sort of I'm in the same room as you, and stuff like that. But hopefully you can smell me
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so but with Europeans you never know. But so so solar eclipse happens when the moon passes this, what you should remember between the earth and the sun, blocking all part of the sun's light from reaching the earth. It can only happen during a new moon, when sun and moon and conjunction is seen from earth conjunction, meaning that they are
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: kind of on top of one another, right? So the earth, which is sun, which is ginormous, and the moon and and viewers this is not to scale. But something like that is meant by conjunction. Okay?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And I think the idea is pretty clear. You can see it from the picture that really explains everything. So why do they happen? Hold on
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: top is down here. Why do does? How often does a solar eclipse happen? And you heard. It happens all the time. And in fact, in the data set that we're going to look at later, which covers 5,000 years of solar eclipses.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: There are about 12,000, about 12,000 total solar eclipses in those 5,000 years. That's a lot. So really, they are very common. It's very common that the moon moves in this position. At that some part of the earth will experience a solar eclipse, so
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: 2.2 to 5 times a year. A total eclipse every 18 months somewhere on Earth. But because you're in a given location unless you become one of those solar eclipse hunters
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: which are supposed to descend on Batesville, and everything in the path in the next month or so, you know, just to see it. They actually follow follow their solar eclipse as if it was a rock concert. Right? You know, groupies that turn groupies. They are people who travel with rock bands, and there are solar eclipse groupies who follow round and try to catch as many solar eclipses as possible.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, I don't know why and so for base, for there was one in 2,017, but the next one from the list. I looked at it briefly, but I didn't really check would be nice thing to check.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: based on the longitude and latitude you could do that. I didn't do that didn't take the time the next one will be like in 300 years. So if you you know, stay in this area also, you're not gonna see another. Yeah.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I don't know how likely that is. But I don't know. So now, this predicting of solar eclipses, if they are so so frequent, you would still like to know if I stand at a particular place. Will there be one or not?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Now, as I said, unless you want to combine a political event like an election, or something like that, with a major event like that. So people are kind of scared or or affected, at least by the event. Then you need to know in this particular place. Will there be one or not? And you would think, you know, given this very simple situation, why can't I just compute that? Surely mathematicians, physicists can compute that right?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And so, this is a more interesting issue. It's called on the left hand side, you see what is called a 2 body problem.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, so there's actually, there are 3 bodies here. But many, many years ago, hundreds of years ago, Newton computed the 2 body problem and created modern physics in the course of it. And the 2 bodies were, for example, the earth and the moon right, or the sun and the earth right 2 bodies.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and what you wanted to know is, if I know roughly how the sun moves and how the earth moves around it, you know, can I at every point predict where both of these bodies will be. That's the 2 body problem.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And that's a fairly simple problem. But it lets to him uncovering a lot of equations and important important insights. For example, this one, which you may remember from physics. The fact that the force is the mass of a body times acceleration, right? And the fact that that these
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: these paths of the planets are not actually circular, as people used to be used to believe, but they're elliptic. So they have actually 2 centers, and so on, and so on. Right there. The mathematics is high school math, and you can totally do that. You know, with a high school degree, however.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: for the 3 body problem, things change massively, and it's not really clear why? Right? so this is the 2 body problem. But for the 3 body problem, things are much, much harder. And the reason is
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: that now we have, I mean, mathematically speaking, you have 3 coupled equations for 3 coupled differential equations. And
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: if you wanna find out with 3 bodies, and let's say, she, 3 juggling boards. It's the same thing, right? I have 3 juggling boards. I want to know which body which of the ball is where? At what time? Yeah. Given that, I have the time I throw it can't be so hard. I know where this one goes. Second one. I know where this one goes. Third one goes. But the the what's called the initial conditions is, how strong am I? How much am I throwing? Where am I hands
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: where my hands relatively. What's the friction of the air? So there are all kinds of things that influence the path of the ball. Now, if I'm only interested in the fact that the ball is roughly here and then there no problem.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: But if I want to know it exactly, with distances involving
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: millions of kilometers.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So if you're a million of kilometers away and you change a little bit 1 million of kilometers away, you're off by thousands of miles. Yeah. So if you want to know that, then you have to really know
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: what the path of these 3 bodies is depending on the initial conditions, and a tiny change in these distances with these large bodies and these small bodies, the tiny change in the initial conditions makes huge differences. So you will compute that you know the the moon will be at this place, but because I don't know
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I don't know what. What can I make up? That explains that to you. Let's say just the delicacy of the conditions. Let's zoom. There were aliens, let's say, a million light years away, an alien farted
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: okay? And that fast traveled
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and kicked
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: a planet little bit out of place. And that's little change in this conditions means that your calculation about what the body will be is gone. Yeah. Now, there are no aliens, I believe, and not to mention the other thing. But anything that small thing that happens will change this path. So it's actually bloody difficult.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So the fact that I'm gonna present you a table of accurate predictions of solar eclipses in 5,000 years, and we are only in the year 2,024, and the thing ends at 3,000. So they computed almost 1,000 years of solar eclipses very accurately. That is very, very impressive, and you could never, never do it without computers, you know.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, so so much for the difficulty of predicting solar eclipses. Do you have any questions so far.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Are you interested in this at all
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: in any way? Okay, you could be in any way, just because you're waiting for the next alien or something else, there could be a number of reasons.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, so why were the 2 total solar eclipses in 2,017 and 24, so close to one another.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and the reason is that they were very different. You can see that in this picture the picture is not very large, but all you need to see is it's America, and there's 2 paths that cross, and the 2,017 ellipse moved, moved, moved from the north west and went into the southeast, and the other one comes from the southwest and moves into the northeast. So the path is completely different, and there's really only 1 point somewhere
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: near San Antonio, where the path actually cross. So that's the only place that really has a so total eclipse in 2,017 and 2,018 obviously, as you can see, Arkansas, which is somewhere here in the middle, does not? Yeah.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: There's a a whole theory about these earth, moon, sun alignments. So if you see that anywhere in the written it's called the Saros Cycle. I can't remember what Sarah stands for I knew that 3 weeks ago. But you know I'm getting old
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: right? So now, in a little little little more interesting, maybe. Let's have a look at what data visualization means. Because, I mean, you see this, you saw this thing here. That's kind of a visualization to put the path over a map. This is a visualization not really easy to understand. You know. You see, there is a there is a the universe is at the top, and then below that you see a schematic which is a projection
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: through the earth to see the path.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: This is a visualization tool quite interesting. This is another visualization. So we're interested in because it's data science for everyone. And most of data, science consists in targeting the interesting data visualization. So you can actually explain complicated things to people in an easy way. Yeah, but that path from the data
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: to the visualization is a long and thorny path.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So look at the top image on your screen. The top image shows a complicated, very detailed way of
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: data visualization which starts at the on the left with sort of preparing data. So going back to business, that would be sales data. That will be healthcare data. But you measure. You know how many people are ill when and anthropology you could say, population data. That's what you mentioned. You acquire them. Then you have to clean them. We actually gonna do that in class a little bit.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and then you can go into this middle bit upper right, which is run a lot of programs in order to analyze the data. And you can see there is a bunch of different visualizations documents indicated on the right.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And then you reflect on it. So you think, oh, which one is good or which one is not good, and then you disseminate it, which means present the data right? And this process is so complicated. And the reason why I'm showing this is, let's say you're interested in data as such. There's something about data that you'll find interesting. Then you may wanna work in the upper left side.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: You're kind of a data engineer, and you can do this in any field. So, for example, in healthcare. A lot of the data are super unreliable.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: because, you know, no 2 people gather data in the same way. In some pallets, they're just gonna check off. Well, they're a bunch of old people here. They see me and another one. They look very carefully at. People, record all the details. That's those are good data. The other one are bad data. So if this interests you, you might want to just work with data itself. This is likely going to be one of the most important areas in all in all areas of human activity.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: To mention another one. That's important aligned sports.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I didn't mention sports because we do not have college sports in Europe at all, and so I forget it. I haven't even been to the first game yet. I've been to some soccer games. I think I said that because I know soccer, but I don't know any of the other games, so I haven't been. But I want to go
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: believe I really wanna go eventually. But so sports analytics is a big area. So if you like to play football or baseball or anything like that, people are going to stay on more and more data, more and more people would be required to understand what the data actually mean. Yeah, at the moment, very few people do so with Lion. I know most of the coaches. Because I talk to them about data, and a couple of them are really interested in, for example, anybody in track and field
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: at all. Yeah, so Adam Trousse is very interested in that. He put one of our students onto doing that for a little research project. In baseball. They're very interested. And we have got a couple of really good students who look at, you know, at relative pitches. And look at you know, what? How could you hit the ball in order to make sure that you let you get through and so on. I don't know much about baseball, but those talks are very interesting.
And then there's the middle bit, which is all about modeling, and that's very math heavy.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So you need to be able to to understand math and basically create models and run them in the computer. And at the very end the dissemination. You might wanna be able to look good in the presentation.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So, for example, I'm okay. Now, I said, I'm not a good lecturer, but I could be way better. But you should have seen me 20 years ago.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I've actually had a video. My dad, somehow, when I give to my first talk made a video of of me when I give my first talk. And it's really you you have pity for that guy, I mean, I don't think I finished a single sentence, I started it was terrible. Yeah. So people who are good at disseminating and presenting have a role here as well because they need to understand where the data come from, how they were being massaged
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and then how they ought to be presented. Yeah. So there's a role really pretty much for pretty much for any form of desire and affiliation, and also for all domains. I only went to business nursing and anthropology, but any other area you study it at line will be relevant. Particularly relevant areas are psychology
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: same thing as as healthcare exercise science. Very important. Use a lot of machines. All these machines produce data anything related to biology and chemistry. You have a lot of machines that produce data. Now, often these data do their own analysis on board. But why would you believe that? Yeah, and often you have to take the data and move them further into spreadsheets, databases, build models to analyze them, compute means. And so on. Yeah, make graphs.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, so this top. Top slide is a bit complicated. This lower one is really what I was just talking about. That's what's called the data science pipeline. And this you can understand it. One in one. Go right? So you can see that the data come out of a cloud of stuff.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And go into into a presentation at the lower, at the right end.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Quick question in between. I think we have at the time anybody here use Chat Gp at all.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Have you done it? If you looked at it, chat should be, or similar being, or anything like that. Yeah, so where do those data come from?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: How? How does this this? AI, this conversation? Where does it get its information from
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: anybody know. Yeah.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: that's the technique that's like what you just. I asked you. I asked you, where does the water come from? You said comes out of the Faust. I know that. But no where did the data come from? What are data? Are they
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: people? So people tell their box, and they take information and then put it through.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: No, that's not true. So you're yeah. I mean, I'm not saying you have Api, in fact, that there's a sort of a connector between the box
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and but the data comes from. But the data don't come from people but the the original model that you use in is A is a model that has been fed from all the available public documents on the World Wide Web.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So any publicly available database web page, and so on, was fed into the model. Yeah, that's what the original data is for
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and that's also one of the reasons for the hallucinations that for the reason that the box something completely crazy because people write completely crazy stuff, right? And the bot does not know what's right or what's wrong at all. In the first place, what it knows is how many people have
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: have repeated something. So it's kind of a democratic decision, and the part assumes. Well, if this document has been repeated by many people, it must be true, right?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: It's a bit like you're not in, but it's a bit like, if I keep saying things often enough, I believe it's true. But of course, yeah, because the basis of that the basis is, I think, the latest model. They don't know exactly. Buttons was fit with about 750 billion documents.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so 300,000 times won't get you very far. So if you wanted to actually hit a a, a rerun of the model, and make sure that your false data in it, to sort of see the effect of it. That'll be difficult because of the way it fills us. You know. It's not just the Api, but it's what the book does with it afterwards it takes all those documents, takes every single sentence in them or every formula cuts it into pieces, translates the text into numbers.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and those numbers are then used to create the conversation that, you know, is conversation. Yeah. So, but in principle, yeah, absolutely. Well, yeah. Yeah. Some hacker found a way of of really seeing the world with some stuff that crap would be repeated by the board.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: That's that's the idea. Yeah, that's pretty. It's a bit terrifying, isn't it? When you think about it, because we still talking about right or wrong.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: anyway? you were on my machine learning course, weren't you?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay? Good. So we, this kind of stuff. AI and machine learning. We teach here as well in case you're interested. Okay? So I want to move on a little bit. What is the difference between. Now these are, this is what you do, right?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And we want to be interested in what are visualizations and what's the difference in particular. So data visualization is.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: it's not just a making a graph. It's the scientific process. And this process includes, you know, knowing where the data come from the origin of the data, using ideally real data and not synthetic data that were made up by some computer. includes a location where the data are stored, and you can go there and check it. Yeah. So let's say, don't know your name. But let's say you, you have to uncover some great thing about what healthcare some
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and somebody might come and say can
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: to do the analysis just to check that. You weren't, you know, saying that you weren't making mistake because most of these most of the people that produce from data are not fraudulent. They just so it's really important that the data that you produce anywhere are stored somewhere, so people can look at against scientific fraud. And so all of these are actually equally important. Then the choice of representation. So you want to know, should I make a graph? Should I just take a photo like an anthropology? Yeah, you have graphs, but
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: a lot of the time photos actually lot more important, right? Because if you have a complicated scene, you take a photo and another photo. And you see what's going on. Would you really wanna make a graph? Not necessarily. Right?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So and the same is true for many other areas. Or maybe you wanna just create a table table of numbers. So in finance or in sales. Yeah, it's nice to see a graph. But most of the data of the world come in tables? Yeah, or put into tables.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So, and the last thing is then a target audience. So you actually should need to know whom am I making this data for? And then a visualization benefit? So do I want to use the data to illustrate something. Do I want it to convince somebody to highlight something, explain it, and so on.
So here are a few examples that I collected because they're so different. Now, you see this right? This is clearly some form of graph.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Actually, don't anybody know what kind of graph this is?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: But
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: no, it's actually it's it's a bar plot.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, but it has 2 dimensions. One is the the categories on the left hand side, and the other one is the time. Yeah. So if it was a histogram, it would have a continuous, variable and frequency, but it doesn't have it. Now, histogram is a special type of bar plot. This is a bar plot. So every bar going to the right is is a particular height, right? And it's also a time series, because it goes time from left to now over time. Yeah. So it's categories on the left hand side
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: against time now. And that's the kind of decision you wanna make. Yeah, you have a question. Okay, so it's a cartoon. It shows it's just a visualization. It's not a data science visualization and what it shows is, I thought it was quite interesting like in the past.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: All these things telephone web browser, electric toothbrush.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: you had a specific device for it. And now you use your phone. Now, I don't know where he gets the toothbrush phone. But you know which phone brushes teeth. But most of these other things you now do with your phone. So it shows how the phone from the left to right has taken over a lot of things that people use to produce. Individual had to produce individual things. For
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: what do you think happened to all the people who worked in the factories that produced these things.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: the what yeah. They left, they lost their jobs, they had to find other under other employment. Yeah, interestingly, you can make a very similar chart about farming in agriculture, but not now, not in the last 20 years, but in the first 20 years of the twentieth century similar thing happened in farming.
Okay, we have to get on a little bit.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: here's another one.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: That's an interesting one. Those are medical images, and the left show. The left one shows the actual image, which is a CT. Scan, a tomographic scan of the heart. The next one shows a placement of where the different parts of the heart are in the actual tomograph
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and the right, the one on the right the photo shows what the model predicted where they are, and you can see it's very good. This is called segmentation. So the comparison is between the middle column the second column and the third column, and then on the right is the model that was built based on the based on the data, on the prediction of an actual heart. Yeah, so it gives you an ability.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And you can see on the left hand side. Only specialists can read the tomograph. We look at that, and it looks like like a map of the moon right like traitors, but the one on the far right, everybody can understand. Yeah. So on the left hand side, you work with the raw data, and then you move along and on the right. You can just present people hard, and everybody understands how that works. And if you know what's how that works, I don't really know how works. It's a mysterious muscle.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And of course, as I say here, science is a very fickle mistress.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: And when you actually do it, if you wanna learn it. If any of you here is interested in data science, I can teach it to you. No, I can teach it to you. I can teach it to you, but you have to learn it yourself. But it's more craft. So things like math and other things are important if you like them, and if you can do them. But if not.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: you can learn data. Science does. It is like learning how to fix a car, you know. So it's more a craft and less of a science.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: In fact, there are very few sciences like, you know, exercise. Science is called a science, but it's so young it can't be a science computer science quarter. Science is not really a science. It's a craft, right? It's much too young. What is a science, physics, chemistry. It's actually a science biology half and half too young. Yeah.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and so on. Okay, so what are some interesting eclipse visualizations. We gotta get back to the eclipse here, and here are some which are. That's why I opened the browser just to show you how they look like. So I don't want to look at all of them. You have them in the script. But here these are many, many, many different ones. I'm gonna just show you a couple here, so we can move on with our with our coding. Okay, so here's an orthographic map of the ellipse.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: He is a. He is an animated gift. That shows that shows the 3 body
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: shows how the eclipse moves across. This is kind of interesting as well. Yeah, you can. You can have a cycle animation.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I'm sorry. Yeah. Here you see it.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: That's animation of the cycle. So you see the eclipse. How it moves around all the time with the 3 bodies right
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and so on. There's a lot. There's a lot more here. I don't wanna open them all. And interesting. What actually is also Google Maps, you can open Google Maps. And you have these links in your in this middle in this middle thing. So you can see the path of the eclipse. And this is a map you can home in. And somewhere here is Bateswell. Yeah. So that's the center of the path.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and on the outside of the of the yellow lines is the penumbral path where people don't see the full total eclipse anymore. But they see a sliver of sun left.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay? So let's move on this a little bit about history. Just a couple of minutes. Okay, now, this is kind of cool. That device that you see at the top is 2.5,000 years old.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and it actually predicted solar eclipses for a few decades ahead
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: now, this was only, I think, rebuilt in 2,008. So all we found in archaeology were few, rusty, rusty dials, and something like that. And then people actually re engineered this device right. And it's it's very cool. I'd love to have one of these at home.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So Ali told you about about the the battle of the battle of Halis in 584, before Christ, where sudden darkness was interpreted as a divine sign for peace, and they stopped fighting. The the eclipses have been really important in science altogether. So, for example, an important site. Scientific milestone. That's the one I mentioned earlier. Remember the
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: remember the beats. Yeah. Remember that picture where there were these beats here. Yeah, there's a theory we may have heard if you heard of Einstein at all. Yeah. So Einstein did a creative.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: We said that actually, space is not at all like you think it is space is totally affected by the mass that is in the space, or put differently, you know, when all of you but nobody was in this room.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: A straight line in this room is like this, but now they're all here as masses. Straight line all of a sudden is like this.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: That's the news way around, just because you're here.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: That's what it means. Yeah. So in the I don't know somewhere. But the date is 1,919.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: This theory was a theory, and nobody but people believed it because the math was good. But you hadn't, really. It's really hard to test. How do you test that? You know, because you need really big bodies. So what Eddington did is he measured the path of light in during a solar eclipse of these speeds, because you can almost like see an individual path of light. And he showed that you know the path of light looked like that
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: without the sun, without the moon being closed. And it looked like that suddenly when the moon was closed.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Yeah, because there was a mass here that was actually repelling
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: polite. Yeah.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So in that way the clear general relativity was proven, and it changed. As I said, our view of the world entirely. You have all seen those satisfaction, right? Wormholes, stuff like that. Yeah. So all those things black holes, in fact, all of that is, came into existence as a possibility through that theory. So it's really, really important.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay. And I already told you about the technological thing. Now, what do you need to have or learn to visualize the solar eclipse. And here's an example of some data that people have collected. And you can be gonna work with data just like that in a minute. A, and it just collects the the the latitude, the longitude, and a bunch of different things about the path.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: So all of these start with data in some shape or form. But if you actually want to take get this data as a diet data scientist. You see the the page on the left hand side. Those are the data. The page on the right hand side is the page that is opened. When I look at a web browser, I can actually do this here as well.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: If I inspect this page.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: you can see what the page actually is made of. Yeah, that is actually behind the page. Every element of the page is in this page here. So if I want to get data out of a nice looking table on the left hand side. I have to do web scraping of the data on the right hand side, and that can be a very complicated issue. Okay.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so what kind of tools do you need? You need to programming languages like our or python, which you can learn here at Lion. You need to import the data and do a bunch of stuff. I've shown all of that in this document, but I thought about the cool to do it together. So in your browser in next 10 min, very quickly. I just would like you in the browser to open this address. Have you already done that
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: 10 url.com slash Mac minus solar
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: tenurel.com slash mac minus solar.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: This is an optional exercise. Nobody's gonna
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: kill you if you don't do it, but if you do it it'll be fine.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Oh, sorry for the one I booked this. Yeah, then. Okay, yeah, I know I should have fit in 50 min. Hold on, guys. So you have this address. You can actually run this. Quote all by yourself. Just click on it
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and run it to see some of the visualizations, and you also see them in here. I talk too much. I'm so sorry. I thought it was 10'clock. But I hope you had an idea about data science now, and in any shape or form you find that interesting for your topic. You can, just as an individual. Come and talk to me. If you have interesting data, I'd love to massage some of the data into good graphs and stuff. Okay, thank you. Now.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: this is your reward.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Sorry I should have opened you off what you can do, but so please
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: come by. Do this. Take a picture.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: and
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I'm sorry I didn't finish. But, as I said, take this away and just keep your way through it. Okay, if you have any questions about it. Ask me.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: most of the stuff ever finished.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I would otherwise completely have run over.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Person doesn't have that phone.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Otherwise, you just send me an email and I add your name to it.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Thank you.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Oh, yeah, I need to give you another picture is.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: I'm gonna post that.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: hey, Eric? Long time. No seat. Yeah.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: yeah.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: See you tomorrow. See you?
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Oh, thank you.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Sorry. I used your field for what you were the first role. So that's why I had to use use nursing all the time.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Second, good you, too.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Thank you, doctor, thank you.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Let's say we'll check it. Oh, that's the
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: that's for you guys
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: who's your advisor on this video, please.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, so you just
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: so if you have time.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: it kind of gotcha, especially machine.
Birkenkrahe, Marcus: Okay, okay, Gotcha. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you.